### Run Levels in Linux

**Definition:**
Run levels are a feature of Unix-based operating systems (like Linux) that define the state of the machine after boot. Each run level represents a different mode of operation.

### Command  to check run level
- command to check current run level

```shell
who -r
```

 Above command return information of current run level to know in which run level user logged in.

**Run Level 0 to 6:**

1. **Run Level 0: Halt**
   - **Definition:** Shuts down the system.
   - **Use Case:** Used when you want to power off the machine safely.

2. **Run Level 1: Single-user mode**
   - **Definition:** Puts the system in a single-user mode for administrative tasks.
   - **Use Case:** Used for maintenance tasks such as filesystem checks or repairs.

3. **Run Level 2: Multi-user mode without networking**
   - **Definition:** Starts the system with multiple users but without networking.
   - **Use Case:** Useful for scenarios where networking services are not required or are intentionally disabled for security reasons.

4. **Run Level 3: Multi-user mode with networking**
   - **Definition:** Full multi-user mode with networking.
   - **Use Case:** Standard mode for most server systems where multiple users and networking are required.

5. **Run Level 4: Undefined/User-definable**
   - **Definition:** Not used by default. Can be defined by the user.
   - **Use Case:** Custom run level for special configurations or specific purposes.

6. **Run Level 5: Multi-user mode with networking and GUI**
   - **Definition:** Multi-user mode with a graphical user interface (GUI).
   - **Use Case:** Standard mode for most desktop systems where a graphical interface is needed along with networking.

7. **Run Level 6: Reboot**
   - **Definition:** Reboots the system.
   - **Use Case:** Used to restart the machine safely.

