

### Configure and Assign Static IP using `nmcli`

**Command:**

```sh
nmcli con mod enp0s03 ipv4.addresses 192.168.1.100/24 ipv4.gateway 192.168.1.1 ipv4.dns 8.8.8.8 ipv4.method manual
```

**Options Explained:**

- `nmcli`: The command-line tool for managing NetworkManager.
- `con mod`: Short for "connection modify," used to modify an existing connection.
- `enp0s03`: The network adapter name (replace with your specific adapter name).
- `ipv4.addresses 192.168.1.100/24`: Sets the static IP address and subnet mask. Here, `192.168.1.100` is the IP address, and `24` is the subnet mask (equivalent to 255.255.255.0).
- `ipv4.gateway 192.168.1.1`: Specifies the default gateway.
- `ipv4.dns 8.8.8.8`: Sets the DNS server to Google DNS (8.8.8.8). Multiple DNS servers can be added separated by commas.
- `ipv4.method manual`: Changes the IP configuration method to manual, indicating that static IP settings are being used instead of DHCP.

**Use Case:**

When you need to assign a static IP address to a network adapter for a server or device that requires a consistent IP for access or configuration purposes.

**Example:**

To set the static IP for the network adapter `enp0s03` to `192.168.1.100` with a subnet mask of `255.255.255.0`, gateway `192.168.1.1`, and DNS `8.8.8.8`, use the following command:

```sh
nmcli con mod enp0s03 ipv4.addresses 192.168.1.100/24 ipv4.gateway 192.168.1.1 ipv4.dns 8.8.8.8 ipv4.method manual
```

This command modifies the existing connection, assigning the specified static IP settings to the network adapter `enp0s03`.
## Restart Network adapter

To apply the changes after modifying the network connection settings using `nmcli`, you need to bring the network connection down and then up. This ensures that the new configuration takes effect.


### Configure and Assign Static IP using `nmcli`

**Command:**

```sh
nmcli con down enp0s03
nmcli con up enp0s03
```

**Options Explained:**

- `con down`: Brings the specified network connection down.
- `con up`: Brings the specified network connection up.


Above commands modifies the existing connection, assigns the specified static IP settings to the network adapter `enp0s03`, and then restarts the connection to apply the changes.